(leadership)=
# Leadership

Education innovation, teacher professionalization, and research on (engineering) education are not centrally organized at our university. These closely related areas are scattered across different units and initiatives, while a more interconnected and coordinated approach would likely lead to more effective and impactful education, stronger educational research, and a more efficient use of resources. A clear illustration of the consequences of this fragmentation is that external experts are sometimes invited to provide lectures or trainings while relevant expertise is already available within our own university. Importantly, our internal experts are more familiar with the educational and research context of TU Delft and are therefore better positioned to tailor their support to the needs of our programs and staff.

In the next five years, I would like to contribute to connecting the various actors and initiatives in these areas and to help position the Science & Engineering Education group in a more recognizable and acknowledged role in education and educational research at our university. Developing a coherent and interconnected approach is challenging - and attempts have been made before, such as through the Leiden-Delft-Erasmus Centre for Education and Learning program, which eventually ceased to exist - but I believe it remains worthwhile and necessary to continue investing in this effort. To illustrate this, I elaborate below on the three areas and how they are currently organized within our university.

## Current situation
### Research on education
Various **educational research** projects and initiatives exist at our university. With the [IDEE program](https://www.tudelft.nl/teachingacademy/idee), research on engineering education is linked to the [Teaching Academy](https://www.tudelft.nl/teachingacademy/about/teaching-academy). However, Phd candidates and postdocs are hosted at the faculty of the main projectlead. The projectlead is not necessarily conversant with educational research and the young researcher is not housed in a educational research group. Moreover, some 'small' educational research projects are done at IDE, TBM, Architecture and AE, all contributing to the fragmented way how educational research is conducted at our university. A consequence of this fragmented approach is that the available resources (educational research knowledge, books, journal clubs) are not effectively shared - and therewith experiments are repeated with known outcomes, innovations are implemented incorrectly or with delays. Moreover, as educational research is different in many ways from engineering research, the PhD candidates and postdocs are not optimally supported in their research and early career development.

### Teacher professionalization
**Teaching professionalization** (both UTQ and SUTQ) are **hosted** by the teaching learning service (TLS) and housed in the teaching lab. Moreover, Senior Qualification Examination (SKE), Continuous Professional Development (CDP) and pedagogigcal trainings for both teachers and teaching assistants are provided by TLS. Meanwhile, there are other programs like a [teacher on-boarding program](https://www.tudelft.nl/teachingacademy/kick-start-your-teaching) hosted by the Teaching Academy. However, as yet, there is no connection to the teacher education program or with the Science & Engineering Education department. The disconnect between the teaching professionalization and the teacher education program is a missed opportunity: modules, reflection forms and assessments are not shared, but also experiences and expertise are not exchanged - the teacher education program has the in-house knowledge on education and teacher professionalization. Hence, there is a duplication of efforts and missed opportunities for collaboration and educational growth.

### Education innovation
**Teaching innovations** are mostly left to individuals, especially young academics or junior teachers. There is no central support for teachers to innovate their education, and there is no central approach to sharing and scaling up successful innovations. This is a missed opportunity as well as it leads to a lot of duplicated efforts and lesser impact on teaching quality that could be achieved. Moreover, writing for teaching grants like the comenius teacher grant, or the scholarly of teaching are hardly supported and therefore not very common granted.

## Vision
My vision is that we should value and approach education in a similar way as we do our engineering research: collaboratively, well designed, interconnected, excellent, and thorough. A step forward in realizing this goal is to better align our efforts in teaching and innovating education and educational research. Teaching Learning Services, the Teaching Academy and the Science & Engineering Education group could be more closely connected and cooperating together in a collaborative effort to make education at our university more effective and impactful. 

Importantly, this is not a plea for a single centralized group covering all educational activities within the university, nor would such a structure be realistic or desirable in the short term. The Science & Engineering Education group currently consists of approximately 17 FTE, many of whom are primarily involved in the teacher-education program and only indirectly connected to university education. Rather than broadening the scope indefinitely, I believe a clearer strategic focus is needed.

In my view, the strength of the Science & Engineering Education group lies particularly in educational research, teacher professionalization, and the connection between secondary and higher engineering education. With a strength in educational research, SEEd could contribute to education innovation as well - or put more strongly: educational research _should_ inform and support innovation. Putting more emphasis on Engineering Education also implies making deliberate choices regarding activities that may fit better elsewhere within our university. For example, outreach activities and primary education initiatives could be more naturally embedded within the Science Centre or existing communication-oriented initiatives. This would allow SEEd to strengthen its role and visibility in educational innovation and research within the university itself.

My vision is to position the Science & Engineering Education group in a more recognized role in education and educational research at our university as they have a long-standing expertise in education and educational research. Although the focus has been mostly on secondary school education and only in recent years on higher education, expanding the focus to higher education is a natural step as e.g. design education is already part of the research portfolio. A more central approach to educational research would allow us to better support PhD candidates and postdocs in their research. It would also increase the internal visibility of the teacher education program, ultimately contributing to the recruitment of more secondary school teachers. Moreover, it would strengthen the university’s research profile in engineering education and contribute to improving the quality of education through more evidence-informed teaching practices. Finally, a stronger and more connected educational research community would naturally stimulate further collaboration across faculties and initiatives.

In my position as assistant professor I have been able to make personal connection with the various actors - I know many people from the UTQ, SUTQ, teaching support and the support team from the Teaching Academy. I also know many teachers from different faculties interested or doing educational research and have worked with them on a regular basis. As an associate professor I would like to take a more leading role in connecting the various actors and initiatives, for example by organizing regular meetings, workshops and joint projects - e.g. continuing educational research beyond the IDEE program, and defining a clear strategy on professionalization, innovation and research.

This is not a small task, but I believe that it is necessary to achieve our goals in education and educational research. Moreover, I believe that it is a task that fits well with my skills and interests, and that I can make a significant contribution to. I have already taken initial steps in this direction through my involvement in various cross-faculty educational initiatives and collaborations, which have allowed me to build a broad network across the university.